# 1.4

### P53

##### 5

a) There is at least one student spends more than five hours every weekday in class.

b) All students spend more than five hours every weekday in class.

c) There is at least one student doesn't spend more than five hours every weekday in class.

d) All students don't spend more than five hours every weekday in class.

##### 7

a) All comedians are funny.

b) All people are comedians and all of them are funny.

c) At least one person, he/she isn't a comedian or he/she is funny. 

​	or 

​	There is someone, if he/she is a comedian, then he/she is funny.

d) At least one person is both a comedian and funny.

##### 13

a) True

b) True

c) True

d) False( because the integer $n$ can be negative )

##### 17

a) $P(0) \lor P(1) \or P(2) \or P(3) \or P(4)$

b) $P(0) \and P(1) \and P(2) \and P(3) \and P(4)$

c)  $\lnot P(0) \or \lnot P(1) \or \lnot P(2) \or \lnot P(3) \or \lnot P(4)$

d)  $\lnot P(0) \and \lnot P(1) \and \lnot P(2) \and \lnot P(3) \and \lnot P(4)$

e)  $\lnot P(0) \and \lnot P(1) \and \lnot P(2) \and \lnot P(3) \and \lnot P(4)$

​	or 

   $\lnot(P(0)\lor P(1)\lor P(2)\lor P(3)\lor P(4))$

f)  $\lnot P(0) \or \lnot P(1) \or \lnot P(2) \or \lnot P(3) \or \lnot P(4)$ 

​	or 

   $\lnot(P(0)\land P(1)\and P(2)\land P(3)\land P(4))$  

##### 23

##### $I$

$x$: consist of all people

a)

Define $P(x)$ is  $x$  can speak Hindi.

$\exist xP(x)$

b) 

Define $P(x)$ is  $x$  is friendly.

$\forall  xP(x)$

c) 

Define $P(x)$ is  $x$  was  born in California.

$\exist x(\lnot P(x))$

d) 

Define $P(x)$ is  $x$ has been in a movie.

$\exist xP(x)$

e) 

Define $P(x)$ is  $x$  has taken a course in logic programming.

$\forall x(\lnot P(x))$



$II$

$x$: consist of all people

Define $Q(x)$  is $x$ in your class.

a)

Define $P(x)$ is  $x$  can speak Hindi.

$\exist x(Q(x)\and P(x))$

b) 

Define $P(x)$ is  $x$  is friendly.

$\forall  x(Q(x)\rightarrow P(x))$

c) 

Define $P(x)$ is  $x$  was  born in California.

$\exist x(Q(x) \and \lnot P(x))$

d) 

Define $P(x)$ is  $x$ has been in a movie.

$\exist x(Q(x) \and P(x))$

e) 

Define $P(x)$ is  $x$  has taken a course in logic programming.

$\forall x(Q(x) \rightarrow \lnot P(x))$

##### 35

a) No counterexample

b) $x=0$

c) $x=2$

##### 45

$Proof:$

| Step |               Prop.                |  Rule   |
| :--: | :--------------------------------: | :-----: |
|  1   |     $\exist x(P (x) \or Q(x))$     | premise |
|  2   |          $P (c) \or Q(c)$          |   ES    |
|  3   | $\exist x P (x) \or \exist x Q(x)$ |   EG    |

##### 53

a) True

b) It can not be decided. It depends on the card of domain. If x is made up of only one element, then it's true,otherwise,it's false.

c) True







